Now that we have our fire base utility library inside of our project let's actually set it up so that
we can start using it in our application.
Now what we want to do is go into our project directory and we are going to add a new folder in our
source called firebase inside of this fire base.
We are going to make a new file called firebase dot utilize dot J.S. now in order to properly use and
set up our fire base utility files or utility methods.
We actually need that config object.
So if you accidentally lost it somehow.
I'll show you how you can navigate back to finding that configuration we want to go from our dashboard
to project overview which is this page and then you'll see this grid item here.
If you click this you'll see our application or sorry.
You'll see our fire project.
So we want to click this and then scroll down.
You should see this SDK snippet with the CBN.
That object that we want is right here.
So we just want to copy this go back to our firebase utilize and then we're going to import firebase
from firebase slash app so by doing this we're pulling in the firebase utility library that belongs
at this firebase slash app.
Now the reason we do firebase slash app is because firebase has all of the utility libraries loaded
when we included the entire dependency when we installed firebase with ya.
But we don't want any that we're not using because they are quite large.
So whenever we need them.
So in this case we need off and storage.
We can import them themselves by exporting firebase slash fire store for the database and firebase slash
off for the off we always need the base import though because that keyword is going to give us access
to fast or an author when we import them in they'll be just automatically attached to this firebase
keyword and then what we're want to do is we want to set our content config equal to that object that
we just stored and then we call firebase dot initialize app with that config.
Now what I'm about to type next will be quite a bit of code.
It will make sense once we start using it but because it's config it might seem a little confusing because
we are mainly configuring the firebase utility that we get all of it is in the documentation on firebase
itself but these are the ones that we need for Google authentication.
So what we want to do is we want to export const off which is equal to Firebase dot off.
So when I mentioned that we imported firebase off that is what we manage to get access to is the dart
off method on Firebase and we want to export this out anywhere that we we need to use anything related
to authentication.
Next we are also going to export the store that we imported the same way that we did with the off so
we don't need this yet but it's better for us to just export this for now now to set up our Google authentication
utility.
So this part is a little bit complicated but just follow along.
We're gonna do a cost provider equals new firebase off Google off provider and this gives us access
to this new Google auth provider class from the authentication library.
It takes a couple custom parameters using the custom parameters method and what we want to set is prompt
select account.
What this means is that we want to always trigger the Google pop up when ever we use this Google auth
provider for authentication and sign in and I'll show you what I mean when we use it.
So we're also going to export out sign in this sign in with Google method that is equal to a function
that calls off dot sign in with pop up because sign and with pop up takes this provider class that we
made but it takes it for many different types of pop ups right.
We just want the Google want but there's a Twitter one right.
There's all kinds available to us in our sign in but we just set we want to set sign on with pop up
and then we want to pass this provider through now we also want to finally export default will be firebase
in case we want the whole library.
But you know how I mentioned that there's multiple pop ups.
Well let's actually configure our firebase project to allow us to use Google sign it and I'll show you
how easy that is.
So all we do is we go back to our firebase project and we click this authentication under the developer
tag here we're gonna click set up sign and method and under this Google option we just hit the edit
pencil enable it we'll select the email that we want.
Projects support to have.
Right.
So in case anything goes wrong with firebase at all for anything related to support they're going to
send it to this email that you have here.
And usually it's the email from your Google account that you use to sign into firebase.
We just hit save and now it's enabled we have 0 off enabled for our project using Google and now we're
going to use this signing with Google inside of our sign and component.
So we're going to import it in sign with Google from firebase firebase use hills.
Get rid of that dog.
Yes.
And to see how easy it is.
We just are going to copy our button remove type submit and fire a on click that calls our sign and
with Google method.
And now if we do sign in with Google whenever we click it our button in our application so let's refresh
we see our button we click it and there's the Google prompt it will load any Google accounts that we
already have or the users already signed in with.
And we select it and firebase will handle the authentication there.
Just like that we have authentication with Google tied into our application.
But how do we actually utilize these users that firebase is logging in with.
Well let's do that right now.